market cap i thought im issed btc - market cap is the first thing i learned - was looking for small crypto - market cap lets you know if they smol and you still early or not

Hello World - 

If you're Investing in Stocks or Crypto - and you don't know what "Market Cap" Is - you're lost - & you don't know what you're doing

Don't worry though you're not alone, 90% of people that buy Stonks & Cryptos don't think of them the right way either, when they buy - they

hope it goes up the following week & if it goes down they freak out. So the psychology behind this tells us that 90% of people have short sighted

vision - they aren't looking far enough into the future to see how valuable their investment could potentially become.  Technology has us so accustomed

to instant gratification - that most people don't have the capacity to wait to see their investment portfolios grow - they become impatient &

sell at a loss - veteran investors call these people panic sellers - so separate yourself from the crowd - you don't want to be like the 90%  

of people who buy high and sell low, you're supposed to buy low and sell high - if you want to earn more you must learn more 

Understand that investing is a tool to transfer wealth from the impatient to the patient - When I buy, I pray prices fall - because I don't care about what

the price will be next week or next month - I'm focused on what the price will become in 10 to 20 years! 

So when prices fall I BUY EVEN MORE! ITS CALLED BEING A MOTHER FUCKING DEGEN! UNFAZED TO TAKE RISK - BECAUSE THATS WHAT LIFE IS ABOUT!

NEVER WAS ANYTHING GREAT ACHIEVED WITHOUT DANGER

& If you want to SUCCEED - YOU HAVE TO PUT IN THE WORK - YOU MUST EXPAND YOUR MIND TO NEW DIMENSIONS AND BROADEN YOUR VOCABULARY! 

So Add Market Cap to your ARSENAL OF WORDS - Because its an important tool to 

determine how much money you can actually make in any investment - 

Hence - Set realistic expectations. So What is Market Cap? Market Cap is short for Market Capitalization, and its an evaluation of how valuable a company, crypto

currency, or market is - To calculate the market cap, you simply have to multiply the total supply of shares or tokens times their current price and that will

give you the market cap!  Lets look at Bitcoin for example.  Currently it has a circulating supply of 19,335,531 tokens.  Each token, or each Bitcoin, is 

currently trading at  $30,366.84 each.  To calculate the market cap you'll simply need to multiply the 19 Million tokens times $30,300.00 each and that would give 

you the total evaluation of $587,000,000,000 as the market cap!  



which is the evaluation of how valuable Bitcoin is. 

Woah! I hope I didn't lose you there.  Let me simplify how market cap works. 

Lets imagine Bitcoin is trading for $1.  If theres 21 million coins, that means that the market cap is $21 million dollars.  Why?

Because 21 million coins, times $1 each, would equal $21 million dollars.  So if you wanted to buy all the bitcoins in the world, it would

cost you $21 million dollars (assuming each coin is trading for $1).  So thats what market cap is, the total evaluation of a company, crypto currency

or market! 



Walmart's current market cap is sitting at $xxx,xxx,xxx,xxx - So Bitcoin is actually LARGER & MORE valuable than Walmart!  

And its only been around for 14 years! compared to Walmart's 60 years of existence!  Thats why you'll

often see people labeling Crypto as the FASTEST appreciating asset class in history! - When you own Crypto you own a piece of the network!

Similarly owning stonks is literally owning a slice of a company.  Thats why they're called shares - because you own a share of the company -

in bitcoins case, theres 21 million bitcoins in the pie, and you own a slice of that pie. To fully own a company - you have to own ALL 

the stonks - 



Remember when Elon Musk bought Twitter for $44 Billion?  That evaluation came from buying ALL the stonks for $54.20 each - totaling to 

about $44 billion - so basically ALL the Twitter share hodlers sold their stonks to Elon for $54.20 per share - granting Elon full ownership over the company -  

Look the Reason its important to understand what market cap is and how market cap works - is because it serves as your eyes - and without that understanding 

you're just blind - you won't know what you're doing!  You literally won't know what to expect as far as your return on your investment is concerned - 

so you won't be able to set realistic expectations - The most common mistake noobs and beginners make is that they search for a worthless coin thats trading 

for a couple of cents, or dollars, in the market - in hopes that one day it will be worth thousands of dollars just like bitcoin, or they'll buy a shit 

coin worth fractions of a cent, with a lot of 0s, like shiba inu and other meme coins, in hopes that their shit coin will one day reach parody with the 

U.S. dollar and turn them into shit coin millionaires a great example of this is how most people who buy $DOGE coin go in under the impression that 

"If BitCoin was once under a cent - and its now worth thousands of dollars - why can't Doge Coin do the same thing" - But you see people with this 

mindset/mentality are blind - they literally can't see the equation and numbers in their head - they don't even understand how valuable the company or project 

is to begin with! So they literally can't set realistic expectations! They're delusional! If they understood the concept of market cap - they would quickly realize 

that $DOGE won't be trading for $ Thousands of Dollars any time soon - because theres only so much money in the world - so markets can only get so big - 

In order for $DOGE to grow to $1000 per token - its market cap would need to reach $140 Trillion Dollars! - & theres simply not enough money in the

world to flow into $DOGE coin to raise its market cap to such extremes that its price slingshots/moons beyond $1,000 per token - 

Not even the U.S. National Debt is that big! - or is it?  Just kidding - but look even with $BITCOINS all time high market cap of $1.2 Trillion - 

that would only put $DOGE at $8.00 per token - so now lets be realistic why would anyone buy $DOGE for $1,000 when they can just scoop it up for a couple of 

cents from exchanges ? the only way it could hit $1,000 is if someone pays $1,000 for it - but that won't be very sustainable for someone will 

cash out immediately - and change their lifes forever by dumping on the market! Another other way for $DOGE to hit $1,000 per token would be

via Hyper Inflation - but we're not gonna go there today - Its also important to know that the supply of stonks or tokens plays a 

key role/factor in determining an assets value - scarcity mingled with supply and demand will determines an assets value - for they're only worth as much 

as people are willing to pay for them - sellers on the other hand decide for how much they're willing to let go of their assets - 

So if you're planning on investing on crypto - make sure you study the tokenomics! Because not all crypto currencies are built the same!

Like The U.S. Dollar, $DOGE coin does not have a max supply cap - so an infinite supply of $Doge coins are being minted everyday - 


*include clip from federal reserve saying its infinite*


On the other hand $Bitcoin is scarce like Gold. And what gives $GOLD its value? Scarcity, and $BITCOIN is ABSOLUTE scarcity. You can always

mine more GOLD from underneath the ground/earth or bring some back from outer space - BUT THE SUPPLY OF $BITCOIN'S WILL NEVER CHANGE - 

lastly theres also deflationary crypto currencies like $XLM - where for every transaction on the network, a small micro fee is taken, burnt and 

removed from circulation.  Market Cap is most useful in determining the size of a market, company, or crypto project!  

Allowing you to compare their sizes and set more realistic expectations on to how big your investment can grow! 

You see theres a spectrum of market cap sizes - 

Starting with the largest we have what I call HUMONGOUS HUGE MEGA LARGE CAPS which is ANYTHING OVER A $1 Trillion 

Market Cap - Like Apple or Amazon! Whose stocks combined add up to $Trillions of Dollars in Net Worth!  Theres also a company called Black Rock thats in 

the business of selling stonks - and they're currently managing over $10 Trillion Dollars worth of Assets! 

And did you know that the Net Worth Evaluation for Billionaires, such as Bezos and Musk - actually comes 

not just from money sitting in their bank but also from owning assets and stonks! and why would you want to own stonks?  Well according to TheRealBradLea - 

"the CEO of coca cola made 50 billion bucks last year - as earned income - governments can take half of it - warren buffet invests in coca cola - 

and he was payed 508 Million - as passive income - you know how a lot of people in the internet want to be the boss? well the boss doesn't make any money - 

the investor does - don't be the boss - don't be the ceo - be the investor - because the hardest working people on earth are also the poorest - 

hard work isn't the only variable in the equation for success - you've also got to work smarter - 

a salary is a drug they give you to forget about your dreams - you feel comfortable living paycheck to paycheck - 

because it gets all your bills payed and if you're fortunate enonugh you'll even have some spare cash to spend on personal luxuries (having fun) - 

however if your only source of income is from trading your time of your life for a small portion of cash - you're never going to become rich.  

Its mathematically impossible - and math doesn't care about your feelings - its the ultimate truth and language of the universe - you can only work so 

many hours - and salaries can only get so high - so if you don't learn to make money while you sleep you'll work until you die!

And You'll never be rich!  The key to becoming rich is to increase your cash flow! - you see the RICH don't work for money!  their money works for them! 

they invest. Why would you want to invest? Well investors typically receive dividends from owning company stonks!  Dividends are a distribution of a company's

profits to its shareholders determined by the company's board of directors. So when a corporation earns a profit or surplus, they pay a portion of the profit 

as a dividend to shareholders. Any amount not distributed is taken to be re-invested in the business. Shareholders expect the companies that they invest 

in to return profits to them, but not all companies pay dividends. Some companies keep profits as retained

earnings that are earmarked for re-investment in the company and its growth, giving investors capital gains.

So if you own stonks - you own a share/piece of the business - and thats why you get to part take in the company profits - 

And in the cryptoverse - if you own crypto tokens - you actually own a piece of the network!  And you can lock your tokens in staking pools

to earn staking rewards! So you know how banks loan you money and expect you to pay them back - with interest? Well staking crypto is very 

similar - you essentially loan your tokens to the network by locking them up in a staking pool - and you earn crypto rewards for doing so!

Its like receiving dividends but in crypto! - While banks only offer you .0000001% interest on your savings account - Its very common for crypto 

projects to offer anywhere from 10 to 25% APY for locking up your tokens - and the APY is payed out in crypto - The staking

rewards are fueled by transactions occuring in the network - so every time someone sends a crypto token across the crypto network - 

a small fee is taken and payed out to the the people staking crypto - in crypto you are your own bank - and you get to do banker things

like loan your crypto for interest - so instead of the banks taking all the action of the financial industry - 

now you get to part take in collecting all these fees in society - 

Now imagine this - lets say you're making 10 cryptos a month from staking rewards, and each crypto is trading for $1 on exchanges, its as if you're making 

$10 a month.  But if your crypto were to 100x in value - meaning it goes from trading for $1 to $100 on exchanges - your $10 a month rewards just 

became $1,000 a month of passive income doing absolutely NOTHING!  So even though money doesn't grow on trees - You can still 

make money with every breath you take - its kind of like mining crypto but without the electricity cost 

Anyways Bitcoin was once a $Trillion Dollar Asset too, inside the HUMONGOUS category but has since

crashed and fallen into the MEGA LARGE CAP category - which is anything between $200 Billion to $1 Trillion

Walmart is in this Category - currently sitting at $382.16 Billion Dollars

The reason they're called MEGA LARGE CAPS is because anything in this category or bigger - are simply already too big already if you're trying to make 

generational wealth to retire - so if you're trying to make life changing gains with these types of companies and you're poor - i'm sorry but you've already 

missed the train - I often see new investors with 0 knowledge about market cap throw money at mom and pops classic stonks like Walmart in hopes that it will

make them vasts amounts of money to retire - and then get mad because their $10 dollar investment doesn't turn into $1,000 over night and instead see

their investment fall - then they proceed to talk shit about investing to discourage you and others from participating - If only they understood the 

concept of market cap - they would be able to see that in order for their $10 investment in a Walmart to turn into $1,000 - $Walmart Stonks would need to 

grow 100X in price! Putting its market cap to $382 Trillion! Which is more money than there even exists! And like I said earlier - theres only so much in the 

world! So $382 Trillion Walmart isn't going to be happening any time soon... and thats just a mathematical fact!

A more realistic expectation if you're investing in walmart would be for the market cap to hit something like $764 Billion one day - which would

basically just double its market cap - making your initial $10 into $20 - and although that doesn't sound like much - it can go a long way

Because lets say all you have is $1000 to get started on your investing journey, if you double your money 10 times - you would turn your $1,000 into $1,000,000

So by doubling your money ten times from $1000 you would end up at $1,000,000 - I'm not into stonks - i'm just setting some examples - 

I know that as more dollars are created via inflation - naturally the price of assets will rise -

because while the supply of cash increases, the number of assets remain the same - therefor money depreciates in value day by day - 

just saving is not enough - owning stonks and crypto can work as a hedge against inflation - 

Anyways next are the Large Caps - typically ranging anywhere from $20-200 Billion. These companies and crypto projects are big too - but they have the potential

to yield more exciting returns than a MEGA Large Caps - because they're smaller!  And if the company or crypto project hasn't finished maturing or 

reached its peak value - there could still be room for growth!  For example right now $XRP is currently valued at $20 Billion - Bitcoin on the other hand

is currently at $449 Billion.  If Bitcoin goes back to its all time high of $1.2 Trillion market cap - it would more less triple your wealth - however

if $XRP went to $1.2 Trillion you would 60 X your investment - which is far more exciting than a 2 or 3 x on your investment! So smaller coins

have the potential to yield bigger returns! Because they have more room for growth! making it easier to climb to the $Millions and become rich!  

For example, if you 10 x a $1,000 investment 3 times, you'll end up at $1,000,000! but if you get 2 60 x from $1,000 you're already at 3,600,000

its easier said than though, thats why these types of stories are rare - because its RARE to find people with the patience to see their inestments grow/multiply

Most people sell like to sell at a loss when they see blood on the streets, instead of buying more for when the market recovers - 

Heres what Andrew Tate thinks about the bear market:
*TATE CLIP* 
"when crypto is going up - and crypto is reaching new all time highs - everyone's panicking trying to get ahold of money to buy crypto

TOO LATE - NOW IS WHEN YOU NEED TO BE PANIKING FOR MONEY - not when crypto was spiking - and everyone was talking about it and every dummy

was making money - stack your bags now stick to the basics ethereum bitcoin - coins that are not going to go anywhere - 

you were panicking more to make money to buy crypto when crypto was in all time highs than you are NOW when its on sale - 

now the key to making money in a situation like this is to position yourself now in before the settlement because by the time you read 

about it in the wallstreet journal its already too late! *clip ends*

most people chase green candles because they think its going to keep going up forever, so people will gladly & unknowingly buy at the top/peak

of the market - then get upset when their investment falls.  The actual real life wolf of wallstreet once said, that what goes up must come down, like gravity - 

a popular strategy by experienced investors is to dollar cost average, meaning they'll buy at different price points in hopes of averaging a buy in average at a

low price so that when their assets grow they get the most out of it and multiply it.  





After large caps come the Mid Caps at 2-19 Billion - where you'll find projects like $DOGE coin, $XLM, $HBAR 

After that come the Smaller Caps from 300 Million - 2 Billion - my favorite coins in this category are $QNT and $DAG because they

work with our government, and they're literally over 10 times smaller than $DOGE which is just a joke 

Even smaller than that though are the MicroCaps Coins sitting between 50 Million - 300 Million

and lastly at the bottom of the pyramid you'll find the SUPER ULTRA DIAMOND MICROCAP SUPER GEMs -> which is anything below a 50 million market cap. 

and if it isn't obvious, i've made up these classifications myself - this is the rubric I use in my mind to determine

the size of companies before investing - and many experienced investors have a similar rubric they've made up in their own minds to classify sizes of 

market caps -


generally the sizes are: (give example from that picture)  


anyways heres an investing cheat sheet:

Heres a quick cheat sheet:

Smaller Market Caps = (are) High Risk
& High Risk = High Reward
On the other hand 
High Market Cap = (are) More Stable
but more stable = lower returns


So the higher the risk, the higher the potential returns 

Lets take Alkimi $ADS for example.  A crypto currency currently trading for $0.14 with a market cap of $x million. They're competing in an industry worth 

$500 Billion - if they manage to capture 50% of the market/economy their market cap would grow to $250 Billion, and each token would start trading

for $X instead of $0.14. You would multiply your $ x times, Meaning if you throw $1,000 in you would get $x out.  However theres no guarantee that they 

will actually capture 50% of the market/economy, but if they do those are the mathematical facts.  

On the other hand, the lower the risk, the lower the returns.  This is because the returns on your investments grow exponentially based on your

point of entry! Meaning that the lower of a price point you get in, the more you'll multiply your money as it grows! 

for example lets imagine 2 companies - Company A has a market cap of 1 Million while Company B has a market cap of 1 Trillion.  

If both companies were to grow to $2 trillion market cap - company A would give you a X return while company B would only give you a 2 x

on your investment, so  if a market is already big cap is already big it wont yield as much returns as small caps because they don't have much more room to grow - 

Lets look at another example

lets imagine theres 2 people - Person A bought $BTC for $100 back in 2010, Person B bought $BTC in 2020 for $20,000, 

on the last bull run it shot up to $69,000. Person A multiplied their investment by X times.  Person B multiplied it by only 3.  

Now lets imagine theres a third person, person C.  Person C bought at the PEAK of the 20xx bullrun when it was trading for $69k.  

Now $BTC is trading for $20,000.  Person A is still winning being up x times on their original investment, Person B is back to their 

original position.  And person C is at a loss freaking out and selling like a panic seller, because the veterans took profits at the peak of the bull run

and sold to the newbies and are waiting for the prices to fall back down to shake out the weak paper handed short sighted bitches so they can re buy the 

assets at a discounted price and re sell it to new investors on the next bull run, and repeat the cycle.  

Market cycles look like this:

*explain while going at it*

...

The proper way to evaluate and compare - you don't evaluate them by looking at their price but their market CAP - 

The last thing I want to cover in this video is the proper way to compare companies/projects with each other.  You don't compare the price of the

stonk or crypto token to see which one is more valuable.  You compare them based on their market caps!  Because that tells you how valuable

they truly are in terms of the rest of the market!  So it lets you know if the asset is undervalued or overvalued, it lets you know

how much more it could potentially capture within its market to grow!  Allowing you to set more realistic expectations! 

*****
how much company can grow hence how much bigger the token can get etc.



a lot of people don't like the idea of buying quant because its over $100 but they will buy doge because its worth pennies, and lunatic
moon boys will buy shit coins worth .000000000001 because its worthless

while beginners investors are searching for cheap coins in hopes they become worth thousands one day 


and you're not supposed to compare tokens value with each other

base on coin price, but their market cap size! Their market cap tells you how valuable they truly are!

I've met countless beginner investors throw money at shit coins like shiba inu because it has a lot of zeros, they think its going to make them 

rich, and when you confront them they say things like "just watch, you'll see, just do it you'll thank me later" but theyy don't

even understand how valuable the thing they're investing is in the first place -
 they're hipnotized looking at the price of the token

rather than the value & capitalization of the market 


***


For Example $QNT is currently trading for $150.  $DOGE coin on the other hand is trading for $.05 cents. However Doge Coin is in the top ten largest

crytos in the world, while $QNT is ranked X.  A newbie investor will look at $QNT and think wow thats expensive!  But inreality $DOGE is expensive.  

Because their true value comes from the size of their Market Cap! And $QNT has a smaller market cap, thats why its not in the top 10, so even though 

it has the bigger price, in terms of market share, its not as valuable as $DOGE.  If you were to sum up the market cap of all the crypto market as a whole,

its currently sitting at around $1 Trillion, $DOGE has a market cap of X so it captures X% of the market.  If $QNT's market cap grew to the size of $DOGE, 

and $QNT works with gov while $DOGE is literally a joke, $QNT would become $xxx per token with $DOGE market cap and be in the top 10.  

So thats why i'm more bullish on smaller cap utility coins. Constellation Network $DAG also works with the government

and they're currently trading for $.04 cents with a market cap of $X. So if they grew to the size of $DOGE guess what? X x return 

so don't be fooled by the price, thats not what tells you how much money you can potentially make, its the market cap.  So next time you see a 

shit coin trading for .0000000000000x, just know that in order for it to reach $1, if it has a supply of x its market cap would need to reach $x to 

why? because token supply * price = market cap

Learn how to use the Market Cap formula to your advantage.  Think of it as an algebra equation.  There are 3 variables to the equation!

Price times Circulating Supply = Total Market Cap! You only need 2 of the variables to find out the missing one!  For example 

If you know the supply of tokens and you want to know how much the price of something would be if it reached the market cap of X then you 

would simply look at your equation, fill

in your numbers, and solve for X!:) 

Lets try one more example - you know how a lot of people speculate on the price of $XRP reaching $589?

To find out how big the market cap would need to be in order for that to manifest - we can look at our equation 

replace the price for $589 and the supply for X and multiplied it gives us $x market cap. 

Ripple said they're tapping into a 9 trillion dollar market, so $589 might be a bit too much

look if we put the market cap of $BTC and solve for price we get $X per token, so with $BTC's market cap its only at $20

but they're tapping into all the money in the world - who knows how valuable that will be

Heres the difference between all the market caps 

To finish off the video lets look at a market cycle 

Thank you for watching
